# Why Use the Mod Builds?

1. **Modders**. The main benefit of these builds is my active collaboration with modders. If you have an adversarial relationship with modders—or, honestly, even if they just don't know who you are—it's so indescribably difficult to maintain a guide of this size and complexity and keep it fully compatible & bug-free as the mod builds are. Unless you can build every single patch you need from scratch, it helps to cooperate closely with them, and I'm lucky enough to do so. Several of the compatibility patches I use, and even a few mods themselves, were created specifically for the mod builds, and every mod I host has been uploaded with the explicit permission of their author(s). From a purely mercenary standpoint this means three things: the mod builds have impeccable and intentionally-designed compatibility between all of their components; mod drama isn't going to get content taken down from this list; and, when there is any need for a specific mod or compatch, it can be put together quickly through our collaboration.

2. **Modularity**. Although all mod guides have some level of modularity, the mod builds focus heavily on it, so you can build a list as customized for what you want as possible. For each mod included the builds, the installation instructions specificy what type of mod they are; what they modify; and how important I believe it is to the experience, to facilitate you as the end-user picking only the kinds of content you want. The builds also identify what mods you can remove if you don't want them, and which are required for certain later mods to function. This means that you can very easily pull out what content you don't want to use without any guesswork required. I will also always do my best to support users who want to *add* content to the builds which isn't present in my recommendations, including identifying any incompatible content you may be looking at & helping to construct an install order for you which will not lead to errors.

3. **Bloat-Free**. This is subjective, but I have never liked mod packs which add content for the sake of adding content. If I enjoy the base game, why would I want to make it unrecognizable? The mod builds take the vanilla-plus stance seriously, with a heavy emphasis on straight improvements of vanilla content. For example, these builds prefer straight graphical upscales or resolution enhancements over appearance changes, and I would only use an appearance change--even a minor one--if I considered the changes made to be logical and superior to the vanilla standard. Similarly, while I do include some fanmade content, it is clearly marked as such and must meet an incredibly high standard of quality and lore consistency in order to warrant inclusion.

4. **Constant Iteration**. The mod builds are a 'living' list, regularly updated as new mods and mod updates are released. While I curate these iterations, the changes aren't just based on my whims; they're arrived at through conversation not just with modders but also recommendations and feedback from users. I won't lie to you, at the end of the day these builds are the package of mods that I want to play, but I also own that I am one person and I can have oversights, miss including good mods, or just plain get something wrong. User feedback helps me to create constantly-improving lists, and I welcome that feedback openly.

5. **Regular Support**. If something went wrong with your install, I won't leave you hanging. Get in touch with me; the fastest way is by posting in the official [KOTOR Discord](https://discord.gg/kotor)'s #tech_support channel, but you can also comment on the Steam Guides page or the Nexus Mods page of the build you're having trouble with. If something went wrong, I'll help you find out what it is and get it fixed.

6. **Built-in Widescreen Support**. Widescreen is once again something that most guides feature, but the mod builds endeavor to take it a step further and include several optional mods to further enhance playing in widescreen, including mods which uncap KOTOR's native 800x600 limit on menu resolution, which applying widescreen alone does not change.

7. **Non-English Compatibility**. Sometimes, including mods intended for English game versions in your setup, if you're not playing in English, would just mean a few lines of text in English; sometimes, it means you get permanently stuck and can't proceed. Mods which are safe to use on non-English game versions are explicitly identified in the mod builds, so those playing with other languages can still use most of the builds' content.

8. **Automated Installation Support**. New in Revision 11, the mod builds are now directly collaborating with the dev of KOTOR Modsync, a program which allows for the automatic installation of mod build content. This should vastly speed up installation times for users who don't intend to make changes to the build, and just want to install everything in a single shot.

9. **Spoiler-Free Options**. Although this only applies to new players and returning folks who have been away for so long they've forgotten most of the plot, the spoiler-free builds do allow even brand-new players to still use mods without risk.

10. **Mobile Compatibility**. The mobile ports aren't an exact 1:1 with the PC versions, and have some particularities. The mod builds feature mobile-compatible versions of the listed builds which are fully tested on mobile, not just guessed at; we know the content listed therein works, and it means you can play KOTOR with all the trimmings (except the graphics mods that would catch your phone on fire) whenever you'd like.
